Welcome back. Now up to this point we learned about
HTML, CSS, templates and learned how to do layout
with things like flexbox and CSS grid and probably
the most important thing that you need to know
from these sections is how to create a website right
how to layout a website but also not spend a lot
of time on simple tasks because when we get to the
JavaScript section which is the more exciting actual
logic programming part of the course
that's when you truly become a developer.
Up until now with what we've learned is the foundation
that that allows us to build web apps and applications
but you're never going to actually get
interviewed about these specific topics.
I mean yes in small cases you might be if you're a
designer you might get asked questions about CSS
and HTML.
But most of the time the questions you'll be asked
is on things like JavaScript logic and more complex
topics that we're going to
cover later on in the course.
But the one thing that I really want to take away
from this section is being able to build websites
fast or at least get to the part where you need to
start writing javascript because that's where your
real job begins.
So I have a task for you using all
the skills that you've learned.
Up until now I wanted to do create a layout of a
website something that you're going to do over and
over throughout your career.
And I've created a small starter file here where we
have these little button like containers or divs.
But as the name suggests I want you to align these
in a responsive way to something that looks like
this.
I know it's not the prettiest thing right now to
look at and we're only focusing on layout but what
I want you to do is to make the header
green button over here be an actual header.
We want the cover to be well the actual cover of our
site and then maybe have a project grid where we
list all of our projects like we have over here and
then obviously a footer at the bottom and I've selected
this layout because it's a very common pattern that
you'll see in a lot of websites so you're going
to be doing this a lot.
So let's figure out the best way to go about doing this
so that when I make this smaller it's all responsive.
So your task is to use whatever you've learned up
until now to create this using the starter files and
don't worry I'll have a solution
video for you after this.
And we'll also go into how easy it is once you have
a layout which is the recommended way to build a
website starting with the layout first and then
once you have the layout fixed converting this into
something usable like this because styling becomes
really really easy once you have the layout in place.
Now the one hint that I want to give here is to use
both flexbox and CSS grid to accomplish your goal
although anything you can do in flexbox.
You can do with grid and vice versa or at least
most things using the tools in combination flexbox
and CSS grid together is really really powerful
to allow you to build a layout like this.
So good luck.
I know it's going to be tough but
I'll see you in the solution video.
Bye bye.